finding a hard to get e-commerce sells
well we're about to change that hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down the best sales
funnel for e-commerce
if you have an e-commerce business that
makes sales whether you're doing it
attention or not and you don't have a
sales funnel you're losing out on a ton
of sales a sales funnel is basically a
journey that takes a visitor from
becoming aware of your product to moving
them through stages of your sales
process and then becoming a customer
hopefully that customer then can become
a repeat customer and a brand evangelist
and just start being part of your sales
funnel and generating you
more sales
so what is a very poorly fine-tuned or
poorly tuned sales funnel really look
like and i don't really consider this a
sales funnel but this is what a poor
version looks like i hate to break it
down for you but most ecommerce sites
are this example it typically starts
with the ad then they go to your product
page they add it to a car
and then boom that's it
there's not really much more to it and
that's what really terrible funnels
typically are for e-commerce and they
just don't work that well so what's the
problem with this well there's no
guidance no intention visitors will have
to figure out a lot on their own and
most of the time they'll just leave your
website without buying anything which is
why well over 95 plus percent of your
audience they don't buy anything
when you're a huge brand like nike just
throwing hundreds and thousands of
dollars in aspen actually they even
throw millions right but let's say you
throw in hundreds of thousands
doesn't matter as much but when you're a
small mom and pop you need to maximize
the results because what
big companies people spend hundreds and
thousands millions or even billions like
the amazons in the world they have brand
loyalty you and i don't have that so we
got to worry about a sales funnel so
let's dive into what a great sales
funnel for e-commerce looks like
i'm going to focus on the funnel that
works with paid traffic the reason for
this is that most people don't have the
luxury of ranking really highly on
google for competitive keywords in their
industry so i want to give you something
that's actionable no matter how much
money you have
especially when you're starting out paid
ads is the easiest way to generate
traffic and sales
in that scenario the best type of sales
funnel is a two-step sales funnel page
the most important thing to know is
you're going to be running ads
specifically to one product not multiple
products one product all the messaging
all the ad creative all the imagery
should be about that one product not
multiple products one product the reason
i'm emphasizing this is it's a huge
mistake that people make
leave a comment below with how many
products you're selling is it one two
ten well the ad we're gonna have you run
is for one product
once people click on the ad they should
be sent to a page that isn't just a
regular ecommerce product page
it should be
about that product you need a few
elements in place in order to maximize
the result that you're getting from the
page the first is strong social proof
this is impactful feature testimonials
star ratings and even video testimonials
not of people just opening up the box
and getting your product i'm talking
about using it too
and a great product presentation that
means good photos of your product 360
degree views maybe in video showing your
product compelling copy as well
highlighting your best benefits of your
product
then you need buy
now call to actions on the top of the
page and as people scroll throughout
whether it's in the review section or
after they read the product description
you need to show it there you also need
frequently asked questions on the page
because people don't buy for a reason
what are they call some of those people
up hey john
why didn't you buy my product and you
can do this by talking to some people
that you know and ask them to go through
your site or you can just survey people
when they're about to leave their exit
pop-up and you can just survey them
now another important thing to be
successful with this is a funnel that
happens between the moment when a
visitor adds this product to the car and
clicks a checkout you'll want to have
what's called an order bump which is
basically an idea of offering an upsell
that's related to the product even
before the visitor gets to the checkout
by having an order bump you'll be able
to increase the average order value and
increase the revenue that you're
generating from this funnel it very
rarely decreases conversions it usually
increases your revenue by around four to
six percent so you should do this you
should try and use products that are a
really good bundle with the original one
that they're buying and is a really good
deal it has to be those things good
bundle and good deal it's not a good
deal it doesn't convert well
now the next thing i want you to do is
once they check out and they buy your
product
you collect the money right then and
there you should have upsell that either
gives them the results from the product
faster or in an automated way if they
say no
give them another upsell literally have
two right there it could be subscription
related it could be speed or automation
you can try out any of those methods but
then by having more upsells you'll find
that you won't really get tons more
revenue even if you don't do a great job
we see it adding at least three percent
in revenue if you have speed and
automation when you fine tune it though
most people are seeing a 10 plus percent
lift in revenue when you add two more
upsells that include speed and
automation everyone wants faster results
and less time right they're buying your
product to do something give them the
results quicker and in less time
if you do that your e-commerce page is
going to convert better if you need help
optimizing your ecommerce site for
conversions check out my ad agency np
digital if you have any questions leave
a comment below i'm here to answer it
thank you for watching make sure you
like review rate this episode share it
whatever you can to get me more views i
really appreciate it and i'll try to
keep creating more free content like
this